there's a long-established annual
exercise dealing with large-scale riot
control and although the police who
patrol the sovereign base areas the
skills every month this December's
exercise with the British military is
particularly important
Tim Cooper's been finding out why the
Hesco Bastion construction of this part
of the British forces Cyprus training
estate betrays its usual purpose as a
mock Forward Operating Base for
Afghanistan preparation but today it's
acting as stand-in for the main gate of
RAF Akrotiri a sovereign base areas
refresh their riot control skills
they're working under the assumption
that these skills will be put to the
test in the new year every January is
begin it's becoming a trend that right
will be right wing as extremist groups
are gathering outside the main entry of
Akrotiri their purpose is to protest
against the SBA's this Pradas normally
becomes violence so the SP police is
preparing for us these pictures show the
protests in January this year where
several people were injured the training
displays the strategy of the police
which is to allow peaceful protests but
deal swiftly and effectively with any
violence they're working with members of
the military working dogs unit carefully
design manoeuvres and naval apiece to
move protesters back and later that
evening the slow run training is put to
the test personnel from a company and
fire support group second Battalion
Royal Regiment of Fusiliers based in
decay Lea who have been drafted in to
play the part of the rioters scenario is
played hard
the Fusiliers throwing punching and
kicking in an effort to get through 84
squadron lend a hand illuminating the
scene from the sky and the fire Support
Group personnel mount a diversionary
attack bringing into play the military
defenders of RAF Akrotiri whose job it
is to maintain the integrity of the base
it's a good test for us tonight in terms
of the equipment and the tactics were
obviously very fortunate we can work
with the helicopter the night-sun is
particularly useful in these
circumstances but also training with
with
colleagues is invaluable to us the SBA
police say they don't want violence at
any protest but believe that if it does
break out thanks to their joint training
with the military they're well-equipped
to cope Tim Cooper forces news RAF
Akrotiri